# OpenXC Android Library Changelog

## v6.1.5-dev

## v6.1.4

* Fix version for Bintray releases.

## v6.1.3

* Remove invalid default language for Play store listing.
* Fix Bugsnag token uploading Proguard mappings.

## v6.1.2

* Another attempt at an automated release.

## v6.1.1

* No code changes
* First attempt at an automatic release through Travis CI to the Play Store and
    JCenter.

## v6.1.0

* Convert from a Maven build to Gradle, to be compatible with the officially
    release Android Studio.

## v6.0.6

* Fix: Protect against crashes in the activity using a fragment disappears. (#215,
  #217)
* Update Bugsnag library to latest release.

## v6.0.5

* Fix: Explicitly specify signing algorithm when building release APK files to
  fix installation on Android 4.3 and earlier (#210).

## v6.0.4

* Fix: Use proper initialization of an explicit intent to start and bind to the
  VehicleService. This fixes data received by third-party OpenXC apps (i.e.
  everything besides the Enabler, doh!) and also allows the app to run in
  Android 5.0 (#213).
* Fix: Timestamps in trace files are now respected, so playback is close-ish to
  the same cadence as the messages happened (#214).
* Fix: Watch out for null pointers in a few places, caught with crash reporting.
* Fix: Properly put service in background/foreground when a trace file restarts
  playback (#212).

## v6.0.3

* Improvement: Use an explicit intent to start services to avoid a security
  hole.
* Fix: Guard against a race condition when querying for an active VI.
* Fix: Gaurd against missing timestamp when rendering diagnostic messages.

## v6.0.2

* Fix: Fix classpaths in Enabler manifest so it can find the activity class.

## v6.0.1

* Change Android package namespace from `com.openxc` to `com.openxcplatform`

## v6.0.0

* BREAKING: Refactor RawMeasurement class into more useful message types in the
    openxc.messages package, all based on a VehicleMessage. This requires
    updates to all code that uses the VehicleManager.
    * Renamed `addVehicleInterface` -> `setVehicleInterface`, only allow 1 VI at
        a time.
    * `getSourceSummaries` and `getSinkSummaries` are removed in favor of
        `getActiveVehicleInterface`.
* BREAKING: Classes implemeting `VehicleInterface` must now implement an
    `isConnected()` method.
* BREAKING: Increase minimum Android API version from 8 to 9.
* BREAKING: Refactor VehicleManager's API for retrieving the active vehicle
    interface.
* BREAKING: Limit the VehicleManager (and Enabler) to only 1 active VI at at
    time, making the API and UI much more clear. Because of this change, the USB
    VI is no longer enabled by default - it must be explicitly selected.
* BREAKING: `MockedLocationSink` is renamed to `VehicleLocationProvider`, and it
    no longer implements `VehicleDataSink`. It is simply a VehicleMessage
    receiver and is instantiate explicitly in the VehicleManager.
* BREAKING: Message listeners will no longer receive the last known value of the
    message when they register. The complexity of maintaining this was not worth
    it since there is a synchronous API you can get to get the current value on
    startup anyway.
* Feature: Support sending diagnostic requests to a VI.
* Feature: Support receiving diagnostic responses from a VI.
* Feature: Add new KeyMatcher class to support matching multiple types of
    messages from VI with a single handler.
* Feature: Redesign Enabler UI for clarity and add new swipeable view panels
    * Dynamically list all received simple vehicle messages in Enabler
        instead of hard-coding a subset. Supports anything being sent by the VI with
        a `name` and `value`.
    * View a list of all received CAN messages, with timestamp, ID and data.
    * Send an arbitrary CAN message.
    * Send a diagnostic request.
    * View diagnostic responses.
* Improvement: Add full support for receiving and sending protobuf encoded
    messages to a VI (although the vi-firmware does not yet have full support
    for receiving commands encoded as protobufs, see
    [vi-firmware#313](https://github.com/openxc/vi-firmware/issues/313).
* Improvement: Use Gson for JSON (de)serialization to greatly decrease code
    complexity in exchange for a small performance hit.
* Improvement: Use message injection instead of trace file playback in test
    suite for quicker, more reliable tests.
* Improvement: Only attempt to send commands to a VI if it claims to be
    connected.
* Improvement: Don't display Android's GPS location in Enabler to avoid battery
    drain.
* Improvement: Use more standard icons to show vehicle interface connectivity in
    Enabler, and include multiple resolutions for high-DPI displays.
* Improvement: Switch from Crashlytics to Bugsnag for crash reporting as it
    doesn't require an Eclipse plugin to get going.
* Improvement: If native GPS overwriting is disabled, fully disable the vehicle
    location provider instead of just leaving it on.
* Improvement: If native GPS injection is enabled, only register for GPS updates
    from the phone if connected to a vehicle interface. If not connected, don't
    keep GPS alive to avoid battery drain.
* Improvement: Greatly increase unit test coverage, from 8% to 57%.
* Improvement: Add a callback for VehicleDataSource instances registered with
    the VehicleManager to be notified when the pipeline is activated or
    deactivated.
* Fix: Warning displayed properly when remote vehicle service is not running.

## v5.3.2

* Be less strict about incoming JSON messages (allow whitespace).

## v5.3.1

* Improve reliability of automatic Bluetooth device detection and decrease the
  impact on battery life.
* Listen for Bluetooth VIs that initiate a new connection to avoid polling.
  Uncheck the "use polling" option in the Enabler if you have a new Ford
  Reference VI with a big "OpenXC" sticker on it, as this version is capable of
  initiating the Bluetooth connection on wakeup.

## v5.3

* Automatically discover, initiate pairing and connect to Bluetooth-enabled
  OpenXC vehicle interfaces.

## v5.2

* Support Android API level 19.
* Fix timestamps in trace files - support different locales and restore
  fractional parts.
* Add option to automatically connect to paired OpenXC-VI-* Bluetooth device.
* Merge Vehicle Dashboard example into Enabler.
* Simplified Enabler view - less debug information.
* Fix display of Android location data in dashboard for comparison.

## v5.1.1

* Fix lifecycle issues with VehicleService from Enabler app.
* Fix Bluetooth data sources in Android API 10-13 and below (2.3.x).
* Fix selecting a trace file for playback in Android API 10-13 (2.3.x).

## v5.1

* Run OpenXC VehicleService in the foreground (including an Android
  notification) when connected to a vehicle interface.
* Fix possible concurrency problems with USB, Bluetooth and network vehicle
  interface sources.
* Fix UI blocking when changing network vehicle interface URL.
* Decode binary output from a vehicle interface (experimental)
* Display app version in an 'About' page in Enabler.
* Re-styled Enabler to better fit on small screens.
* Update a few dependencies, leading lower CPU overhead in normal operation.

## v5.0.0

* Add OpenXC icon to Enabler
* Don't send timestamps with commands to the vehicle.
* BREAKING CHANGE: Store timestamps as milliseconds in Java code, and as
  seconds (with fractions) in serialized measurements (#47 at GitHub)

## v4.0.3

* Building with Android API level 18
* Fix possible deadlock in network data source

## v4.0.2

* Fix build with Eclipse and the latest version of Maven plugins.
* Increase logging verbosity for debugging VehicleDataSinks.
* Split trips in trace file recorder based on data received, not just time.
* Protect against a race condition in the Bluetooth and Network interfaces.

## v4.0.1

* Fix a regression for Android 2.3 and 3.0/3.1 devices. Library and Enabler now
  work without USB support, as they should.

## v4.0

* BREAKING CHANGE: Combine `Odometer` and `FineOdometer` into a
  single high-precision measurement, `Odometer`. There is no more
  `FineOdometer` measurement, but `Odometer` is a drop-in replacement.
* Bluetooth and file recording now more reliable - will remain running even if
  you leave the Enabler activity.
* Improved USB throughput by using larger bulk transfer sizes.

## v3.0

* Add support for network-based CAN translator (thanks Ewgenij Sokolovski and
  Robert Rembold)
* Push core physical vehicle interfaces back into the realm of the remote
  VehicleService process for performance and to accomodate a new API for writing
  back to the vehicle.
* Refactor message writing API - VehicleManager.set(RawMeasurement) is now
  send(RawMeasurement).
* Fix build error in Eclipse, hopefully once and for all.

## v2.1.2

* Duplicate messages are no longer received from USB data source.
* Infrequent messages are no longer lost by the USB data source.

## v2.1.1

* Fix build error in Eclipse.

## v2.1

* Raise minimum Android API version to 9 (2.3) to use newer data structures.
* Fix compatibility issue with Android 4.2.
* Bump platform build version to Android SDK version 17 (4.2).
* Significant performance improvements when parsing JSON and communicating
  between remote and in-app vehicle services.
* Continue to flush records in the UploaderSink even if the vehicle is
  disconnected.

## v2.0

* Test and verify Bluetooth data source.
* Add an option to the Enabler's settings menu to use a Bluetooth source.
* Change vehicle data trace file format to include timestamps as native JSON.
* Remove Maven support for Eclipse developers; library dependencies are now
  bundled in the repository.

## v1.3

* Greatly improve USB connection reliability.
* Refactored library internals to allow greater flexibility, including
  user-defined Measurement types, data sources and data sinks.

## v1.2

* Add OpenXC Enabler application to control VehicleService in a remote process.
  Starts service at bootup and allows sharing the service between multiple
  OpenXC applications.

## v1.1

* Measurement API changed, getValue() no longers throws an exception if data is
  unavailable. Instead, measurement objects will not be returned to the caller
  unless they have valid data.

## v1.0

* Initial release, USB CAN translator support.
